# 1.17: The Caves and Cliffs Update (Part 1)

1.17 is the first half of the cave update implementing its non-generation features such as blocks and items. The way that some of these features were made to be obtained in survival were a bit weird, but I'm not going to cover those here as their proper generation came in the next update. The split of 1.17 into 2 updates caused a lot of drama, with 1.19, 1.20, and so on being considered extensions of it as well. This eventually snowballed into Mojang changing their update cycles entirely, for worse rather than for better.

- Amethyst is the first new gem in a very long time, and unfortunately it leaves a lot to be desired. I like that its blocks are musical, and their sprites are quite nice, but that's all the positives I can really say. Amethyst coming from a geode rather than an ore is an interesting concept, but it falls a bit flat because it makes amethyst an extremely abundant resource with little to no use for it. The game already had one useless quartz, and now it has two. I would have prefered geodes just being quartz to be honest. Amethyst looks nicer but they would never outright remove quartz so I'd rather them use that than add a new one. Though any gem being so easily farmed makes it hard to balance any potential uses for it. I at least appreciate budding amethyst being another immovable block like spawners, I think that there should be more things like that for the player to build infrastructure around.

- Calcite is a pretty nice stone, though it not having any stairs, slabs, walls, bricks, or literally any block variants is upsetting.

- Smooth basalt makes it easy to see geodes from afar, and are a decent looking block, though they also lack variants despite being part of an existing stone family.

- Tuff is a good stone type, but it follows the trend of not having any variants. (At least for a few updates.)

- Dripstone is yet another stone type without block variants, but at least it has pointed dripstone which is pretty cool. People had wanted stalagmites for a long time, and adding a new stone type for them was a unique way to do it. I like that they are 2D a lot, because 3D stalagmites never look any good.

- Azalea being a tree type is... weird. Azaleas are flowers, and would have worked fine as a two-tall bush like roses,but they were made into a tree? And a tree without a wood type at that? They look nice and have pretty flowers, but I will never understand why they made it a tree. Their saplings being bushes with 3D models is a bit strange too, and while I'm used to them now I would personally rather replace them with regular saplings.

- Copper is the most divisive ore in the game, and it all started with its implementation here as a decoration block resource. They balanced the ore drops around this purpose, and it was all downhill from there. Its oxidisation mechanics are pretty cool (if not a little inconsistent as more copper stuff was added down the line), but each copper block having 8 versions of itself really clogs up the creative inventory. The waxing mechanic using honeycomb is a really good use for the item and makes a lot of sense despite this item clutter.

- Candles are a fun light source that can make a build feel a lot cozier and more magical. Them stacking like sea pickles was a good choice, and I like that they can be lit and unlit. Being another good use for honeycomb, this update is surprisingly good for bees.

- Glow berries are great cave foliage, acting as both a food and light source. Their name, paired with sweet berries,implies that other berry types could be seen in the future, and while bloat-wise that's a lot of berries, it is a pretty fun naming scheme to give to them. Glow berries being based on sweet berries is an example of a biome vote's features extending past their original bounds.

- Deepslate is a great stone variant that I like a lot. It's different enough from stone and blackstone to be useful in builds, its durability makes mining deep underground slightly more difficult, and their sounds are really nice. It's a shame that this stone gets a full blockset when other stones don't get anything, but that's not really the fault of deepslate. I enjoy deepslate having its own ore variants, as having regular ores generate in deepslate would have looked really strange.

- Dripleaves are really unique plants that I like a lot. They can be used to make something similar to a spleef field,but without the need to break and reset it. The small dripleaves are just as nice for decoration purposes as the big ones.

- Glow item frames are a nice addition, and I tend to use them over regular ones at this point. It's nice to always  be able to see the item inside it.

- Glow lichen feels like a block that is often overlooked, but I like it. It adds some slight decoration to caves and can slightly highlight areas you may have otherwise missed.

- Hanging roots and rooted dirt being related to azaleas specifically is weird, but on their own they are nice blocks.I think it would be cool if they generated all over the place.

- Light blocks being ported over from Bedrock Edition was pretty nice, and make for a useful creative mode tool. I haven't really used them much because I don't play in creative much, so I don't have much to say about them.

- Lightning rods are a good way to prevent naturally occuring damage to your builds without them having to remove lightning. It's a bit of a bandaid solution, but it works well enough if you ignore everyone using lightning rods in their builds. It's at least some sort of use for copper.

- Moss is awesome, I love moss, it's the best feature ever!!! I like the way it spreads and its texture is really good.It makes for some good landscaping material.

- Powder snow is snow that is snowier than before. It is one of the mountain biome vote features, which I didn't vote for, but with a cave update being so desired I can see why people thought this would be a good choice. And to be fair it did come with the cave update so it did sort of work. Powder snow itself is pretty fun, I like that you can become frozen inside of it but I wish it was easier to pick up and carry to build with.

- Spore blossoms make for some really nice ambience, and I would love to see some more similar (non-firefly) blocks to it. Their particles can be used in pretty ways that I tend to implement into builds whenever possible.

- Tinted glass is sure a use for amethyst. I can't say I use it much but creating a window without light does have its use cases.

- Axolotls are a cute mob that I've never actually used for their intended purpose. They regenerate when they play dead but I still wouldn't want to risk them dying. I like their variants and it is cool that there is a special rare one.

- Glow squids were the winners of what was probably the most divisive mob vote ever. A lot of people were not happy with them winning, with the whole drama around Dream and the misleading video about them. I was upset at the time but I've gotten over it. Glow squids are fine, they sort of glow and they spawn underground and that's about it.

- Glow ink sacs are an item that probably didn't need to exist, but I'm glad glow squids at least got some sort of use.It's cool that they they make sign text glow.

- Raw ores are great and probably one of the best features of this update. It's nice for all ores to drop items, and its especially nice for fortune to finally work on metals. Their textures are good on both their item and block forms, and the blocks generating in veins makes for an easy way to tell that you've found one.

- The goat is a decent mob, but one that probably could have done more. They didn't drop their horns originally, even in 1.18, which is really weird. It's cool that you can milk them, but they should have kept goats dropping mutton. The screaming goat is a fun variant for them.

- The spyglass is an item that a lot of people don't need thanks to common client-side mods, but I like the spyglass being a diegetic solution. I think more things like this should be done with items, like coordinates and biomes. The overlay is annoying though, you should just be able to zoom normally without any visual restrictions.

- The changes to ore textures are awesome and anyone who doesn't like them is blinded by nostalgia. This isn't a case like the spawn egg or dye changes where its good to have accessibility but the sprites don't look good either, these ores look really good. It's a good change.

- The changes to the clock, compass, sugar cane, and signs are similarly very good, and it's weird they weren't changed in 1.14 with everything else.