# 1.18: The Caves and Cliffs Update (Part 2)

1.18 is the second half of the cave update implementing new world generation and a lot of smaller and technical changes. While those changes aren't something I can cover from a game design perspective, this update still has a decent amount of things to review.

- Otherside is a really good disc, and follows a (then) new trend of each major update having a new disc. It was a nice surprise to get a disc in this update, as there are no other new items.

- The new height limit was a long time coming, and while it makes the game borderline unusable on older devices, it definitely helps the world feel more expansive. The Y coordinate delving into the negatives is an interesting choice,but I imagine it helped old worlds transition to this update. The deepslate layer underneath stone is really cool and makes for an instant visual indicator of how low down you are.

- The new cave generation is really nice, and puts the old caves to shame. It is so much more fun to explore cave systems now, with the huge open spaces being especially impressive. I have strip mined a lot less since this update.

- Dripstone caves are more than just a cave with a different stone type, they have a very different feel to them. The pointed dripstone feels well spread out, and the water helps connect it to the lush caves and water aquifers. The large clusters and pillars of dripstone feel like a natural evolution of pointed dripstone.

- Lush caves are a really good take on an obvious concept. I appreciate the use of moss, glow berries, and azaleas rather than just throwing vines in a cave and calling it a day. The glow berries make the caves easier to traverse  and act as a decent source of food, though the hundreds of tropical fish that spawn just to die also fill that role.

- The new mountain biomes are definitely an improvement, and I personally find their generation to be quite pretty while also easily traversable. My favourite mountain biome to exist inside of is the meadow, and my favourite to look at from afar is the snowy slopes.

- Ore veins are really fun, I like them a lot. When you find an iron vein during a caving expedition it can be as exciting as finding diamonds, especially in the early game. It would have been nice to see veins for other ores than just iron and copper, but it would be hard to balance them for any other ore.