# 1.19: The Wild Update

1.19, or 'The Wild Update', is the update I have spent the most time on in the last few years, due to it being my main modding version with packs like Raspberry Flavoured and The Alternate Timeline being on it. I think this update is probably the most underrated update despite somewhat being 1.17 part 3. The cancellation of certain features in this update certainly led to the negative feelings towards 1.19, and added fuel to the fire that was the 1.17 split as mentioned previously.

- Frogs were part of the swamp biome vote, and as I voted for the swamps I was really happy to see them get added to the game so quickly after losing to mountains. As mentioned on the webmaster's page, I really like frogs, so it's awesome to have them in the game. They're not the most useful mob in the world, but they aren't the most useless either, and I think they do a better job than pandas, llamas, or parrots in that sense at least. I like their 3 colour types, and while I still favour the green one, the orange one has grown on me as the main naturally spawning frog. I really like how their eating mechanics work, their long tongue is just perfect. My biggest complaint with frogs is that you can't bucket them, it is really annoying to move a frog home after growing it in the required biome for its colour.

- Tadpoles are really cool because they are a unique baby made before mobs had unique babies. I like that they have different AI and essentially act as fish, and that they are bucketable unlike in their older forms. I'm glad that frogs got a unique baby mob, because other mobs like bees that should have unique babies don't.

- Frogspawn does what it needs to do, and is basically just turtle eggs but on water. I'm glad it hatches into multiple tadpoles rather than just one, and I think that other animals should have larger litters too.

- Froglights aren't what you'd expect a frog's utility to be, and while I find them a bit strange they are at least something to make the frog stand out. It makes sense for a frog to eat a slime variant, and it's cool to make that the mechanic to base the frog's utility around, but a light block probably isn't the best thing they could've gone with. They are nice blocks though, and I have used them on occasion.

- Mangrove trees are a bit of a messy tree, but still pretty fun. I like that they have unique sapling mechanics unlike every other tree. When they were announced I was really disappointed that their wood wasn't green, and I still am now, but the red is at least a nice looking wood. Mangrove roots are useful for storing water in a single block.

- Mud is another block with a colour I'm not huge on. I understand that mud can be grey, but it feels weird to not just make it brown, the most commonly associated colour for mud. With its unique block height it can be used for some interesting things.

- Packed mud is a nice building block and a good use for mud. I believe they wanted to implement building materials from other cultures which I think is cool. It would have been nice to have chiseled or polished mud too.

- The mangrove swamp is a biome that really didn't need to exist. The swamp biome vote claimed it would enhance swamps, yet swamps are still boring as ever while the mangrove swamp exists alongside it. I'm not a fan of this decision. The biome itself is pretty nice though and I enjoy mud being its main ground covering block.

- Sculk catalysts turning souls into sculk is really interesting both mechanically and lore-wise. I like that the sculk blocks keep the experience inside them rather than the mob dropping it, further tying experience to soul energy. It's also just good to have an easy way to farm sculk blocks, as they are a very nice block.

- Sculk shriekers make the deep dark actually pretty scary, as they are pretty difficult to cheese without wool and make for some creepy ambience with the darkness effect. The warden being summoned by vibrations rather than spawning naturally is a great mechanic that allows for different stealth strategies. The texture of the shrieker is also really cool, the souls spinning around inside are awesome.

- Sculk sensors are a crucial part of the warden summoning mechanic, and are also useful outside of the deep dark for their wireless redstone functionality. They were technically already in the game before this update, but weren't properly implemented until now.

- Disc fragments are stupid and could easily be replaced with a slightly rarer disc loot table.

- Echo shards are peculiar items that don't do much but have a lot of potential. I hope they get more uses in recipes down the line because right now they don't do much at all.

- The warden is such a cool mob, probably one of the best to ever be added in my opinion. I like how you aren't meant to kill it, with the rewards instead coming from the loot it protects. Its spawning mechanics are really unique and its design even more so. It being blind and only finding you through vibrations is awesome functionality and I love its sonic boom attack. I wish it wasn't killable at all to be honest, but in a game like Minecraft any mob can be cheesed somehow anyway.

- Reinforced deepslate is a block made to set up future content. It was a big mystery as to what it was meant to be for, with the leading theory being that it was a portal frame, and this was proven true with Minecraft Dungeons 2. Much like how piglins were made for Minecraft Legends and illagers were made for Minecraft Dungeons, it seems sculk was made for Minecraft Dungeons 2. In the base game though, it doesn't do much but sit and look cool.

- The deep dark is a creepy little cave biome, and it was good to finally get it after it was excluded from 1.17/1.18. It is a fairly simple cave biome but it does its job well, and the fun of it obviously comes from the ancient city.

- The ancient city is the best structure in Minecraft, hands down. This structure is why I believe 1.19 to be underrated, it is so fleshed out and I have only grown more fond of it over time. It is definitely the reason that sculk was delayed an update, and probably part of why 1.17 was split into two, but it was worth the wait for such a fun and polished structure. Mob spawners wish to be but a fraction as cool as the ancient city. I don't even know what to say about it other than it's just really really cool, I love the lore implications of the blue wool and dark oak blocks being illager related, I like the hidden redstone room, the portal frame is very interesting, and there's just so many little details all over the place. Swift sneak is a really good enchantment that makes a lot of sense to be found in this structure.

- 5 is a really interesting disc. Much like 11, it contains a story rather than a song. The sounds featured in it include a flint and steel, an army marching, an endersent, amethyst blocks, sculk sensors, and a warden. It's definitely linked to Minecraft Dungeons and I would love to know what is really going on in it.

- Recovery compasses are a decent way to locate your death point, but they are pretty expensive and require you to be pretty good at not dying to get. You also only get one chance at finding your death location as if you die again the compass resets. It's a cool idea but not the best execution.

- Goat horns are a pretty fun item to play with. My favourites are Call and Sing, but it's pretty cool that Seek is the illager raid horn too. You can't do much with them but make noise, but sometimes it's fun to have a noise maker when playing with friends. I always forget that goat horns were added in this update and not alongside goats, it's so weird.

- Allays are unfortunately not the glare which I voted for, but despite that they are a good addition to the game and the lore. They are cute little pets, and ones that are pretty good at not dying on adventures. Their item sorting mechanics are pretty useful and their ties with music are fun. I love them being connected to vexes, and being a really important mob in Minecraft Legends. The blue allay's existence in the base game makes me wonder what happened to the yellow ones.

- The vex remodel is so good. The original vex was pretty bad, and tying them to allays is fascinating. It seems like illagers somehow corrupted allays to be their summonable drones. Truly interesting.

- The new spawn eggs for the ender dragon, iron golem, snow golem, and wither are nice additions that probably should have existed the whole time.

- Chest boats are once again a biome vote feature, and so it was great to see them added. They are a great parallel to chest minecarts and are probably more useful.

- The new potion colours make potions feel a lot more distinct, even if I now get different potions confused. Them not having an enchantment glint is probably for the best.