# 1.20: The Trails and Tales Update

1.20, or 'Trails and Tales', is the last major update before drops were created, and it's one that a lot of people seem to not care much about. I think it adds some good stuff, and some less than good stuff, but overall it's pretty good I think. Some may say it's 1.17 part 4, which is sort of true, but it definitely has its own identity too.

- Bamboo wooden blocks are something I wanted ever since bamboo was added, and I think they were done really well.I'm very happy that they went with the stripped yellow bamboo approach for the planks, though it's strange they added a new mosaic block for this wood type only. Bamboo boats being rafts is very fun.

- Calibrated sculk sensors make sculk sensor contraptions much easier, and I like that it uses amethyst in the recipe for both the lore of amethyst as a sound related crystal, and for a new use for amethyst.

- Cherry trees were a desired feature for an extremely long time, and it was really cool to finally see them added. The texture of their planks don't have much contrast which isn't great, but I like their hue a lot. I enjoy that petals fall from the trees.

- The chiseled bookshelf should have just been a rework to the bookshelf. It has never made sense for the bookshelf to have books on all sides, and taking books out and putting them in is a really cool mechanic, but the regular bookshelves still exist! I know that the reason for this was that it could make some builds look weird to replace the old bookshelves with the new ones, but it's so frustrating to see old features stay stagnant as new versions of them are implemented alongside them. Chiseled bookshelves also really should have had wood variants. The advancement for obtaining one should have been 'Knowledge is power'.

- Decorated pots are a fun addition that I've wanted ever since pots were added in Minecraft Dungeons. They work a bit differently to how they were originally showed off in the 1.17 preview, but I think they work better being simpler and I'm just happy to have gotten them already, after being announced 3 updates prior.

- Pottery sherds, being part of pots, are pretty fun, and allow for a decent amount of customization that you don't usually see in singular blocks. I like that some of them reference Minecraft Legends through their names, though the name 'sherd' itself is a pretty weird choice even if that is what you would technically call a pot shard.

- Hanging signs are a cool sign alternative, if not a little strange for using stripped logs instead of wood. I like that they have different hanging states depending on their placement. It's also great that signs can have text on both sides now.

- Piglin heads were a strange thing to add in this update, but they are a nice addition regardless. It reacts to redstone just like the ender dragon head which is a nice touch.

- Pink petals are very cute, and are a unique way to do ground covering flowers. They are probably my favourite Minecraft flower, or are at least in the top 3.

- Sniffers are the mob that I voted for, so it was nice to see them added to the game. They ended up working pretty well with the update's theme which is quite nice, just like goats and campfires were. Unfortunately they don't really do much of value, they can only dig up two plants and can be difficult to get a hold of for such a small reward. I would have liked if they were rideable or could find more plants with proper uses.

- Pitcher plants and torchflowers are the previously mentioned sniffer plants, and they leave a little to be desired. It is a bit strange that they are the only flowers that can be grown like crops, and I really wish that the torchflowers glowed.

- Suspicious sand and gravel, along with the pots, were a surprise to see after so much time passing since 1.17. They work quite differently to their original showcase, but I think they're better this way. It's much simpler to just have brushes take the items out than have a tenderness mechanic.

- Brushes are obviously tied to the suspicious blocks, and I quite like how they look in comparison to their original textures. I do wonder what happened to the blue brush from the original showcase but it's probably for the best to just have one brush.

- The relic disc is really nice, I love that it ties the trail ruins to Minecraft Legends' time period, as well as canonising that game in a much clearer way. I also just really like the music in Minecraft Legends so it's nice to have some of that in the base game.

- Netherite upgrades are terrible. All it really does is make netherite gear impossible to create on big or controlled servers. I really do not understand why they added this feature.

- Armour trims on the other hand are quite fun, and I have enjoyed using them on many occasions. It's pretty cool to tie each one to an existing structure, giving players a reason to explore the world to find each one. I also like that they can be combined with many different ingredients for lots of different combinations, rather than just one colour per armour type. It's cool that they are another use for diamonds, but I don't really know why they use diamonds. I don't think most diamond-ingredient recipes have any thought behind them.

- The camel is on the fence between useless and useful for me. On one hand, I don't know why horses couldn't just be the mount to take multiple players, but on the other hand I like their silly faces. It's weird that they didn't originally spawn naturally in this update, and I wish they could wear armour, but at least they give cactuses a new use as their food. 

- Cherry groves are a pretty biome that I quite enjoy. They aren't perfect and there's definitely things I would change about them, but I am always happy to see them. :3

- Trail ruins are a bit of a weird structure. They feel a bit too random in their build shapes and block selections to me, but that's nothing in comparison to their suspicious block loot tables. I have never seen such awful loot tables in this game. The only items of value are the sherds, templates, and the music disc, most of which being useful in any way, especially after finding the disc more than once. The rest of the loot is pointless junk. In what world am I ever going to want to uncover a purple stained glass pane? I made my own brushing loot table for Modest Mining back before this update released, and it is leagues better despite being made in a day and having very little playtesting. And that is an insult to this feature, not a compliment to my work.