# 1.20.5: The Armored Paws Drop

1.20.5 is another game drop, implementing the mob from Minecraft's final mob vote, which I voted for. Because of this, it should be obvious that I was happy to see this update, though it certainly came with some issues.

- Armadillos are the mob I voted to join the game, as I have wanted wolf armour for a very, very long time. I think that the mob is quite fun, if not a bit of a strange addition to the game when compared to the existing animals. Them crawling up into a ball is quite cute, and being able to brush off their scutes is a cool addition that I would love to see added to turtles as well. I'm not huge on how scute brushing works though, rather than there being a cooldown on each armadillo, you can just spam click them until your brush breaks. That combined with armadillos randomly dropping scutes on ocassion makes me not very fond of their scute mechanics overall. 

- Wolf armour, as I previously mentioned, is something I have always wanted to be in the game, and so I love this addition. Having it tied to armadillos is not exactly the way I would implement it myself, as it could have just worked the same way as horse armour. Mob uses like this are very strange and I feel as though there are better ways to make mobs useful than tying them arbitrarily to items such as this. I still enjoy having wolf armour though, and I can see myself actually taking wolves out into the world with me thanks to their addition.

- Wolf variants are really cool, and are an example of an unexpected feature stemming from a vote. Some other examples of this phenomenon include glow berries, fireflies, and practically all of 1.18. Dog types had been a long requested feature, so to see them finally come to the game while also making wolves spawn in more locations was really cool.