# 1.21.9: The Copper Age Drop

1.21.9 is a game drop adding a bunch of copper related features. This drop is a great example of the lack of possible polish a drop is able to recieve, and is one of the first drops where I don't really like any of it that much. 

- Copper bars and chains are very disappointing, being recolours of their iron counterparts without any new texture-work. I don't know if this can be attributed to the speed of drop update cycles or just pure laziness and I don't know what's worse.

- Copper chests are fine if not a bit unnecessary. They exist to assist copper golems in their sorting, which I feel didn't have to be the case, but it's not a big issue.

- Copper golems are very different to how they were pitched in their mob vote description, and while item sorting is more useful than random button pushing, I can't say I like their implementation. Their animations feel off to me,their sounds would fit a glare more than a golem, and I don't like their eyes glowing. They have disabled forms for every level of oxidization instead of just coming alive after being stripped as an oxidized golem, which is really strange since it's meant to be the oxidization making them immobile yet removing it doesn't revive them? And for some reason when you build them they spawn a copper chest, which I think is to teach the player that copper golems use copper chests, but if the player can learn how to make the golem they can learn how to use them. I much prefer Team Abnormals' copper golems.

- Copper torches and lanterns are lit with a green flame which is really cool. They did not add green fire in any other way than these two blocks. Why on earth would you add green fire without adding green fire. I am appalled. The lanterns are also just recolours again to add insult to injury.

- Shelves are a cool idea and I like that they act as a hotbar switcher, but I don't like their recipes or their textures.

- Copper tools and armour are one of the worst features to be added in recent times. Copper was originally added as a decoration block, and thus its ore loot tables were set to drop multiple raw copper items to compensate. This was a poor decision as it meant copper wouldn't be able to be balanced for any other purpose in the same way as the other metals. They then doubled down on this by making copper generate everywhere throughout the trial chambers. And only after all that did they finally cave to the complaints of the community and add copper gear. There was no rebalancing, and especially no changes to the tool progression. They added a completely useless tool set for an unbalanced resource, and they don't even have good textures. I could write a whole book about why copper tools are a terrible addition but this section is long enough as it is.

- Copper nuggets should have been added when copper was added in my opinion, so I'm glad they are finally here. It's a shame that it was the addition of copper gear that finally caused them to be added though.

- End flashes are a very peculiar addition, but one I quite like. I am very interested in what causes them lore-wise.

- The copper trapdoor recipe change matches iron trapdoors so that's good. I don't know why they didn't match to begin with.

- The new dye textures are not great. Similarly to the new spawn eggs, I think it's good that every dye has a unique shape now for differentiation purposes, but these textures are just not it. The paper the dyes sit on is a decent idea, but the dyes themselves have so many chunks of solid and untextured colour.