# 1.20.3: The Tricky Trials Update

1.21 is the first (and last) major update since game drops were introduced, adding a variety of features mostly relating to the new trial chambers. A lot of people seem to not care about this update that much, but I think it was actually quite a decent update, adding some really cool features that I wouldn't want to live without now.

- Trial chambers are really cool structures that I have had a lot of fun with. They can be quite difficult to fight through, but also feel worth the effort unlike a lot of the structures in the game. My main problems are that it can be difficult to find these structures at times, making this update feel very self contained, and that the chambers are full of copper blocks. Copper is not a useful resource, but now that you can get stacks upon stacks of the stuff from a single structure there is no hope of it ever becoming a useful resource.

- Trial vaults and spawners replace regular chests and spawners in trial chambers, and they function in a very cool way. Allowing multiple players to fight through the chambers by limiting rewards to keys and vaults is a good way of keeping chambers replayable, and I hope to see these blocks used in more structures in the future. I also appreciate that the spawners create more difficult waves when there are more players around, the blocks work together really well to make the chambers function to their fullest in both singleplayer and multiplayer.

- Breezes are an awesome mob, I love the idea of element type blaze alternatives so much. I hope that we see more mobs of this nature in the future. For a blaze alternative the breeze is also very unique, it almost acts more like a boss mob than the blaze does with its wind attacks and evading strategies. Wind charges are a very cool alternative to fire charges, and make me wish that fire charges could be thrown like fireballs in a similar
way to the wind charges. It's a bit weird that wind charges come directly from breeze rods, when fire charges
come from blaze powder not blaze rods, but if they had no other ideas for breeze powder uses then I suppose it's better to have less item bloat.

- The mace is a pretty fun weapon, that I've enjoyed messing around with in my testing. Unfortunately it feels way to rare to me to actually be worth anything. It's a similar case to the trident, but turned up to 11, and I can't justify their cost for their gimmick. I also think that adding the heavy core just as an ingredient to craft
the mace is stupid. You could just have maces come from vaults like tridents do. 

- Ominous bottles solve a problem I've had with illager raids, that being the instant bad omen you get from eliminating a patrol. The choice to activate bad omen yourself is quite the welcome one, though I don't know if I would have chosen a consumable liquid myself. Tying bad omen in with trial chambers is a pretty fun idea, I always prefer adding new uses to existing mechanics rather than making new mechanics that feel very similar. 

- Crafters are something I never thought we would see in the game, and are also something I've always modded into it myself. While the mechanics of the block seem a little bit janky to me, I think this is a great addition that opens up a world of possibilities in automation. This one of the best features of this update. 

- Bogged are a swampy skeleton variant, which has been explored before in other forms through things like Minecraft Dungeons. I think the bogged is the best version of this idea, and has much more of a personality than strays. I appreciate that they were even added at all, since originally they were just regular skeletons with poison arrows in chambers. They went above and beyond to make this version of the mob interesting, even making them shearable. Of all the undead variants this is one of my favourites. 

- The new copper block types are great, and honestly they should have just been added along with copper originally. As I previously mentioned I do not like them generating in such a large quantity in chambers, but that's more of a structure issue than a problem with these blocks. They look nice and I enjoy using them, and I am so happy that they changed the terrible trapdoor and door recipes that they came with originally. A lot of people were disappointed by the changes to the copper bulb, but I don't really care personally.

- I find the new potions to be kind of strange. Not bad necessarily, but just a bit weird in comparison to the existing potions. The infestation potion is the least strange to me, and I think it's pretty cool despite the recipe just requiring stone. The other three potions causing something to happen when you die is what I find the most strange, and while I understand their purpose in context of trial chambers, they feel a bit odd to exist as potions outside of that. I prefer oozing to weaving and wind charging for similar reasons to infestation, weaving is fine, and wind charging is definitely my least favourite. 

- The new discs in this update are pretty great for the most part, I quite like a lot of the new music in this update in general. I can't decide if I like Precipice of Creator more, but I do know that Creator (Music Box) is one of the worst discs in the game. I can appreciate it as a version of Creator that just sticks to the music box aesthetic, but I wish it had just stayed a remix online or something. It's just disappointing to get the music box version, and for some reason that's usually the one I get. 