# 1.21.5: The Spring to Life Drop

1.21.5 is a game drop that is pretty good for the most part, adding a lot of small features that the community has wanted for a long time. Despite this I think that there are also some parts to this game drop that aren't all that great. 

- Bushes are a fun addition that add some foliage variation to several biomes. I think the texture leaves a little to be desired, but I'm glad they were added overall. 

- Cactus flowers are something I added to MC AT near the beginning of development, so it was cool to see them added to the game officially. I think there's a missed potential with cactus fruit, especially with the concept from the proposed badlands update. Besides that, it is a fun addition that I enjoy. 

- Fireflies were finally added to the game after people screaming about them for years. And yet I haven't seen all that much about people using them... it's almost like people only wanted them because they couldn't have them. Strange. I am a firm believer that all Minecraft bugs should be large, like spiders, bees, and silverfish, so I despise fireflies being particle sized. But if you renamed them to glowing spore bush or something with a resource pack, the firefly bush is a fairly cool block and I enjoy its mechanics. It just would have been nice to have full sized fireflies like in the mod Naturalist, which I have used in MC AT.

- Leaf litter is a really cool decoration block that both adds a new use to leaves and covers the realm of 'leaf carpets' often add by mods. Leaf litter being brown is a great thing and anyone who thinks they should be green needs to go outside and see what fallen leaves actually look like. 

- Short and tall dry grass are also great decoration blocks that add some life to the mostly boring desert. Unlike the bush I think their textures are pretty solid. 

- Wildflowers are the pink petals of birch forests, and I appreciate more biomes having ground covering flowers. 

- Test and test instance blocks seem pretty useful for development, which is greatly appreciated as a mod developer.I'm not sure how often I'll get to use them, since I mostly focus on MC AT which is on 1.19.2, but I'm sure they will be great for other developers.

- Blue and brown eggs feel somewhat redundant to me, as you could just have eggs spawn the chicken assoicated with the biome they are thrown in so it feels like item bloat. I also don't like that they aren't data driven, so if you want to make a custom chicken type you can't make a custom egg type to go with it. That's pretty lame. 

- I really like the new animal variants for pigs, cows, and chickens, I never thought I would see the day where they got added. I've wanted animal variants since Minecraft Earth was released, and while it's strange they didn't bring back any of those designs, I am pleased with the ones that we got. It would have been nice if sheep got variants too, but at least the change of having blue and yellow sheep spawning naturally was reverted. 

- Wolf personalities are a random but fun addition that I was surprised to see, I would love other mobs to receive this same treatment so that there are more small differences between different animals. It would be interesting to see the personalities affect other factors about mobs than just sounds, perhaps that will happen in the future. 

- I do not like the new spawn eggs. I think it's great to remove the speckled designs as there is quite a steep learning curve for knowing which one is which, and they aren't very colourblind-friendly, but i just do not like the way they went about the new designs. Each egg being a different size upsets me on a primal level, and I do not understand why mobs that are affected by impaling have a ring of water around them. That is a very strange factor to point out in spawn eggs and I don't like how they look. I also don't like how the eggs don't have eyes, but do have other facial features (except for creepers and creepers only???). These new eggs are basically round funko pops and I'm not a fan. I much prefer the resource pack [Mob Crates](https://www.planetminecraft.com/texture-pack/mob-crates/), it is far more creative and actually looks good. I will be using this in all of my instances, but I will be forced to use the egg versions when I'm using mods for 1.21.5+ because their mobs will not magically adhere to this resource pack. 

- The lodestone being crafted with iron instead of netherite is a great change, as tying lodestones to late game never made too much sense in the progression. It's a shame that it's yet another use for iron when copper is so limited, but copper's balancing is too all over the place for it to be used in any recipes with the trial chambers being full of it.

- Camels spawning in deserts should have been the way they spawned from the start. Camels are not just tamed animals, they are also found in the wild. I'm glad that has changed. 