# 1.21.11: The Mounts of Mayhem Drop

1.21.11 is a game drop that I feel pretty mixed about, there's a few cool things in it but there's more that I don't like.

- The camel husk is a fun idea, I really like that they chose camels to be the husk's mount. Them not burning in sunlighthas some interesting implications on husks as a zombie type, because I was under the impression that husks didn't burn due to their head coverings, not just due to being a husk. Them healing with rabbit's feet is a strange but decent use for the item, though I'm surprised they would want to further encourage the player to kill rabbits.

- The nautilus is a mob that really should've been added in 1.13, both because it would have made sense since that's when nautilus shells were added, and because the drop system did not do this mob any favours. I really do not understand why they would choose to make the nautilus, of all animals, to be an ocean mount. Even pigs make more sense as a mount than them, it would be like riding a snail. And don't get me wrong, I'm glad they made it a large mob, they are similar to a bug in a way, so I would want them to be big, but I cannot comprehend why these animals would be chosen to be mounts. And what mounts they are. They are tamed with pufferfish, ignoring the rule they set when fireflies were originally removed that animals shouldn't eat things that would poison them. They are basically a combination of the happy ghast and the camel function-wise, being an obvious reuse of code to save time. They give you their own effect, which is literally just water breathing again, completely devaluing both water breathing potions and conduits. They only have a 5% chance to drop their shell because they can't insentivise the player to kill innocent animals unless they are a rabbit. Guardians don't attack them despite attacking squids and axolotls, and the nautilus is arguably way more worth attacking than those. I also just don't really like how the squid parts of them look. The baby is cute though, and to be honest I wish that was just how the mob looked. Much like the copper golem, I far prefer Team Abnormals' take on the nautilus.

- The parched is a much needed skeleton variant to round out the undead mob family, and having them ride the camel husk with the husk is pretty fun. I like that they look like mummies.

- The zombie nautilus is a pretty natural addition, considering this drop adds mounts for the undead and the nautilus is a mount, but all of my negative nautilus opinions apply to the zombie nautilus as well.

- Nautilus armour is stupid. The nautilus comes with armour built in, its shell. This is the one mount that absolutely did not need armour, and yet out of all the mounts this is the one that got armour. Camels, llamas, donkeys, and happy ghasts don't get armour, but the mob with a shell does. Wolves only got armour made of armadillos and yet the nautilus got armour for every tier. It is truly baffling. There is hardly anything to protect the nautilus from in the first place, the only ranged attackers underwater are trident drowneds and guardians, and guardians deal magic damage! And now loot chests are clogged with nautilus armour because mount armour is still uncraftable for some reason.

- Netherite horse armour is once again something that should have been added a long time ago, and it's good that you can craft them with diamond horse armour. I'm glad that nautilus armour at least got a netherite version too to be consistent.

- Spears are a new tool type for every tier, which is something I didn't expect to ever see. Strangely though they are more like lances than spears. They seem sort of fun if not a bit gimmicky, but I would personally make them work more like tridents than maces. They also make maces kind of redundant which is a choice. Their textures aren't great but I'm happy they have their own enchantment. 

- Zombie horses have been in the game for a very long time, and it's crazy that they are only being implemented now. I like their implementation, but it's hard to be excited when they have existed since 1.6.