# 1.21.2: The Bundles of Bravery Drop

1.21.2 is another game drop, adding just one feature if you don't count bedrock edition finally getting hardcore mode. (Which I don't.)

- Bundles should have been added to the game a long time ago. Being a relic of 1.17, they had a long time to cook, and it is baffling to me that it took so long to add them. The reason I believe it took so long for bundles to be properly added, is the problem Minecraft faces due to its many platform versions. While the bundles worked perfectly well on java edition in snapshots from back when they were originally created, they had to figure out how to get them to work on consoles and mobile devices. This is also why I believe bundles changed so much when they were finally implemented. And these changes are just really not great. The way they worked before was simple and easy, allowing you to see all the items inside and insert / deposit items into it simply. All they had to do was add an option to scroll through which item you are currently selecting in the bundle to drop, and it would have been perfect. But alas, they changed it to a new system that works better on mobile phones because that is their priority. It's a real shame, but at least we have bundles now.
Ignoring their history, the addition of bundles is really good. A lot of people dismiss them as though them only having one slot doesn't 'solve' the inventory issue. But this one slot is so very useful! It is so easy to make space in your inventory when you can combine items of different types into one slot. Bundles are a must have for me in any playthrough.