# 1.21.6: The Chase the Skies Drop

1.21.6 is another game drop, adding a few cool ghast related features. It's a bit smaller than the previous game drop, but they have all been fairly inconsistent in scale. 

- Happy ghasts are really cool mobs that I never expected to be added to the game. I've wanted baby ghasts to be in the game since they were added to Minecraft Dungeons, and making them grow up to be happy by letting them live in the overworld is some really cool lore that ties into that one advancement about freeing a ghast from the nether.
Being able to ride happy ghasts is extremely cool, and being able to take others with you on them is really fun Their harnesses look a little goofy, but in a way that I appreciate. I also love that their addition came with a ghast retexture, finally making them more pixel consistent. 

- The new lead mechanics are really cool, and I enjoy how they interact with happy ghasts especially. It seems to have been inspired by the Minecraft Movie, and that is something I'm all here for. Chaining mobs together allows for many different use cases, even if it invalidates llama caravans somewhat (but that mechanic has always sucked anyway). 

- Saddles being craftable is something I thought would just never happen, saddles being such an old feature that have remained as dungeon loot for so long. Them becoming craftable is great, and gives me hope that some day horse armour and name tags will get this same treatment. 

- The player locator bar seems kind of cool, though I can't imagine using it myself very often. I don't have too many thoughts on it other than it's weird to outright replace the experience bar while using it. 

- I'm personally not huge on the Tears music disc. It isn't awful, but it isn't amazing either. It may grow on me over time but for now it isn't something I'd go out of my way to listen to. I do find it strange however that you get the disc from killing a ghast with its own fireball, one of the most common ways to kill a ghast. 


- 1.21.7 being a patch for 1.21.6 really shows how stupid game drops are. From seeing the version numbers alone, you would have no idea that one of them is a game drop and the other is a patch. It's completely ridiculous and stupid.

- The painting and disc that this patch adds are also ridiculous and stupid. I personally do not like paintings that don't look like Kristoffer Zetterstrand's, I think that the shrunk images of his works feel far more Minecrafty than normal pixel art paintings. 

- I share a similar sentiment for Minecraft's music. Minecraft songs should not ever be chiptune, or use noteblocks, mob sounds, or other game sounds (besides the creepy lore discs like 11). The lava chicken disc defies these rules, being a song that does not fit in the game at all. It's like they took a random remix off of YouTube and put it into the game. I do not like the precedent that this disc sets. I don't even mind a Minecraft Movie reference being added to the game, but like this?? Really?? The villager sounds sound like AI. 1.21.7 may be my least favourite update ever, and so with how game drops work, 1.21.6 is very negatively affected in my eyes thanks to it. 