# 1.21.4: The Garden Awakens Drop

1.21.4 is yet another game drop, and it is a fairly underrated one in my opinion. There isn't much in this update that I actively dislike, it is all fairly decent stuff.

- Creaking hearts are the sculk shriekers of pale gardens, spawning the creaking based on certain factors. I enjoy that while there are many similarities between these blocks, they do have fairly different mechanics. Whereas sculk shriekers spawn wardens to protect the deep dark, the creaking heart acts more like the true body of the creaking, using the mob creaking as a vessel to attack the player at night. I also appreciate that it allows resin to be a renewable resource. 

- Eyeblossoms are a very cool looking flower, and I appreciate their mechanic of opening and closing depending on the day, it is a mechanic that ties in well with the creaking heart. I do not however like that there are two items for the flower depending on its state, this could have very well just been a blockstate and I don't understand why open eyeblossoms make a different dye to closed eyeblossoms. 

- I love moss, so pale moss is a very welcomed addition for me. Pale moss carpets are also nice, and I like that it grows up walls, it would be cool to see regular moss carpets do this too. I find it weird that certain blocks have mossy variants when it could just be an overlay block or a system similar to waterlogging. Pale hanging moss is the star of the show when it comes to pale moss, and I really like how it blends the ground and the treetops together in the pale gardens. 

- Pale gardens are a pretty cool concept, a cool antithesis to the dark oak forests. I think that the biome is quite good, though due to it being based on the dark oak forest it suffers its same issues, notably that the tree shapes suck. The pale garden would be much better if the tree shapes were taller and less flat in the foliage region. Like many others, I think that the biome could use a dense fog to make it feel creepier. 

- Pale oak is a really good wood type, it's kind of wild that the game went so long without a white wood. It's very versatile for building, the log looks nice, and the doors/trapdoors have a cool texture. The stripped log texture is very smooth and looks very nice in a wall. The sapling is also quite nice, especailly in comparison to the dark oak sapling.

- Resin is a material I've wanted in the game for quite a while, and are a feature that many mods have attempted to make. Tying it to the creaking heart is very different to the sap-collecting of mods, and isn't something I would have expected from vanilla. The resin brick item feels somewhat unnecessary when there is already a resin clump item, but it is cool that it can be used as an armour trim colour. The blockset is quite nice, although I personally don't build with orange very often.

- I quite like the creaking, Mojang have wanted to create an asymmetrical mob for quite some time so I'm happy for them that they finally have. I've wanted a weeping angel-type mob in the game for a long time, so I really enjoy the creaking's mechanics. I like that it is tied to the creaking heart, and the particles leading you to the heart is a cool way to balance out you being unable to attack the creaking itself. It's interesting how multiple of the recent
hostile mobs now are not meant to be killed.