# 26.2: The Chaos Cubed Drop

26.2 is a game drop that I do not care for. I'm just disappointed at this point. Drops may come with great technical changes but it just isn't worth the rubbish content.

- Cinnabar is a stone that looks like a block of rotten flesh for some reason. I would say its addition would at least dissuade people from calling redstone cinnabar, but there's no stopping gamers.

- Sulfur is a stone that should absolutely be connected to gunpowder and is just not. I find that truly horrendous.

- Potent sulfur creating noxious gas in water is an interesting idea, though nausea is a bit of a weird effect. The added feature of geysers is quite fun and are maybe the best part of the drop.

- Sulfur spikes are like pointed dripstone but for sulfur, making dripstone not unique for no reason. Their name is inconsistent which is stupid, and they don't deal extra damage when landed on which is also stupid. What's stupider is them generating in sulfur springs because that isn't how stalagmites form.

- The Bounce music disc is okay, I haven't listened to it much.

- The sulfur cube is the first slime variant in the base game since the magma cube, and it is really just not good at all. What do you get when you combine a slime cube, and sulfur? You would think the answer is an acidic slime, as slime cubes dissolving the substances inside of them is a common trope, and sulfuric acid is a common use for sulfur, but no. Instead, you lure them with blocks, which you can put inside of them, to make them completely immobile and act as beach balls. 
I'm not fond of turning a slime into a ball, as that seems weirdly cruel and against Mojang's design philosophy, I'm less fond of the slime that does this being a slime that should definitely have been an acidic slime, and I'm even less fond of how they look in ball mode. Their outer texture has so many layers of transparency leading from the edge of the slime to the invisible window into the block inside. It looks really truly terrible, like something you would see from a mod in 2015. I don't understand why they didn't just make the sulfur cube look like a normal slime with consistent transparency, it would have looked infinitely better. 
Different blocks give different stats to the sulfur cube as a ball, which is somewhat interesting but it doesn't make me like them any more. It's also really strange for a slime to be passive, and that this is the only slime that grows from its smaller form. This might be my least favourite mob of all time.

- They made sulfur cubes bucketable which sounds good, but alas. You bucket the large version of the sulfur cube, not the small one, which would have made infinitely more sense. You can also not bucket any other type of slime, making it even more inconsistent. The bucketed sulfur cube also has a regular slime's face, like how I said the sulfur cube should look, despite the mob just not looking like that.

- Sulfur caves follow the trend of drop features being reused existing features, being dripstone caves but with cinnabar and sulfur instead of dripstone. The caves don't look all that great, but they are at least a new cave type. It's just a shame that they aren't very original. They come with pools of water and noxious gas, sulfur spikes, and the sulfur cube. It would have been nice to get a cave type for regular slimes, since their spawning mechanics suck ass, and the same could be said for any sulfur cube related feature honestly.

- Sulfur springs are the sulfur caves version of the lush cave's visual indicator trees, generating above sulfur cave biomes. They are a natural geyser which is cool, but as previously mentioned they come with sulfur spikes which makes no sense. They aren't all that pretty much like the sulfur caves.