# 26.3

26.3 is a game drop that I actually like! After so much mediocrity this is a much welcomed change, and proves I'm not just a hater. I can like updates, see! They just need to be something of substance!

- Poplar trees are Minecraft's answer to maple, the ever-pervasive concept in the community. I'm not too shocked to see a biome like this, with cherry being added updates ago, but it's certainly a welcome addition. Them being poplar instead feels a bit like they're trying too hard to be original but I don't really mind, and it's not like maple sap would make sense with resin being tied to the creaking. The woodset is nice, I like when wood types aren't just brown. I also think the leaves are quite pretty, in red, orange, and yellow, with no boring green. Fun colourful trees don't need to be green and brown. They chose to only make one sapling type to grow all three tree colours, which is good for preventing bloat but not ideal for getting the colour you want.

- Red shrubs look better than the Spring to Life bushes so that's good. I like the foliage being red to spice things up. Them being shrubs makes me wonder if they are a reference to the old dead bush variants from long ago.

- Shelf mushrooms are a feature I've seen a lot of people wanting, though I wish they weren't limited to poplar trees. Them coming in two sizes is somewhat cool, and their bounciness is fun.

- Straw beds are Minecraft's answer to sleeping bags, a bed variant that skips the night without setting your spawnpoint. This is pretty useful but it's kind of lame that they are single-use.

- Wool stairs and slabs are something people have wanted for a while, with their addition due to being used in the abandoned camps. I wish there were stairs and slabs for concrete and terracotta too, as well as walls.

- I really like the cushions, they are Minecraft's answer to the stools and chairs found in every other mod, and they are quite versatile. As they are entities rather than blocks, so you can put them on top of basically any block surface. You can make a fancy couch, a lampshade, a big burger, a full cauldron, and so much more. They are are better than a lot of modded versions of the concept, which is a rare thing to say in the age of drops.

- The poplar forest is a really nice take on the autumn forest concept, with not only orange trees but orange grass too. The grass colour is great and I like it a lot. I love that they didn't fill the biome with green just because it is a normal colour for a lot of plants to be. It is unique and fun. They are a fitting biome for foxes to spawn in.

- Abandoned camps are structures that can spawn all over the overworld, and are the reason for the existence of wool stairs. Unfortunately I don't think the tents look that great, but they are a decent structure. They are however another structure to spawn with beds, even if they are straw beds, which is just the problem of villages being too overpowered again.

- Mushroom stew can now be crafted with two of any mushrooms, which is really good because the old recipe was annoying.
